# CAHI-Veterinary-Drug-Industry
Animal health is directly proportional to human and environmental health, encouraging us to collaborate to achieve the greatest possible outcomes for humans, animals, and the environment. To achieve good animal welfare, Animal health products like vaccines, pain relievers, antibiotics, and parasiticides should be used. This is considered a part of animal care. Collaborating with veterinarians, farmers, and pet owners helps us accomplish this goal. According to experts, at least 60% of all human diseases can spread to animals and vice versa. In fact, during the last three decades, animal-origin or zoonotic illnesses have accounted for over 75% of newly developing human infectious diseases. The animal health business conducts research develops approved medications and vaccinations and distributes them to both companion animals (pets) and livestock. It is a vibrant and forward-thinking industry that produces high-quality, safe, and effective goods. We want to discover major patterns in veterinary product registrations by species using the available industry data from Health Canada to aid in our future goals. For example, we'd want to look at growth trends, stagnation patterns, or decline statistics. It's critical for us to be able to spot new or expanding gaps in veterinary medicine product supply since these can have serious consequences for animal and human health, as well as food safety in Canada. Set up a database structure and queries in which the DPD extracts may be obtained. By evaluating we will be able to discover major trends in the growth, stagnation, and decrease of veterinary medicinal products in Canada. By analysing the industry data and assisting us in developing the necessary database structure and data analytics tools can be used to solve the problem.
The dataset for this project was downloaded from the Government of Health Canada. The Drug Product Database (DPD) contains the data in the format of zip files in UTF text files. These files are directly downloaded to Power BI and unzipped through the script in the visualization tool.
We understand that real-world data or raw data extracted from any platform will be partial, inconsistent, and lacking behaviors or patterns, and will most likely result in several inaccuracies. There were no header files for this dataset when we arrived, so we labelled all the columns for every status file. In addition to the data, we obtained from the website, we built additional columns and measurements using DAX computations to gain further insights.
